Platforms are revolutionizing
the world.
This phrase may be repeated
several times throughout the
course of platform
strategy, but it is the truth
and we can’t look elsewhere.
And the cause of this is that
companies whose business model
is a platform benefit from
the possibility of growing
much more scalable, usually
of higher returns and
usually generate entrance
barriers that almost turn
them into true monopolies.
And look, I’ll give you some
data to illustrate what I’m saying.
I will name five companies.
Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, Google and Facebook.
Do you know them all?
Well, they are the five companies with
the largest stock market capitalization
in the world and it is no coincidence
that all of them, much of their
business model, is a platform.
But when we talk about platforms,
we don’t just think of the
big social networks or the
robberies that come from
Silicon Valley, etc.
No, no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no.
It is that they are revolutionizing all
sectors at the global level, but also
at the local level.
And we talk about sectors such
as hairdressers, gyms, home
cleaning, software,
energy, transportation,
any sector.
It is also not coincidental
that simply in the environment of
the founders of The Power NBA
we can talk about brutal success
cases like 20 sold to Telefónica
for 80 million.
The red refrigerator sold to Rocket
Internet for 80 million as well.
Ticket Peace sold for $140 million
Couponation is a company that
in 5 years has gone
from trading $0 to $500 million
annually.
Jovan Talent is trading
around 6 million a month
and with an exponential
growth.
O Cavify, I don’t even want you to tell
the volume of business you have.
As I said, this is not
coincidence.
All this is due to the fact
that platforms benefit from
many advantages over linear
and traditional models.
And in fact almost all success cases
would tell you that 90% of success
cases if we look around
in the entrepreneurial world,
etc., are platforms.
There is one very important thing and
one must take into account and is that
this is not just about understanding
what a platform is and what are the
differences with a linear model.
We have to go a little further because
all the literature or all the knowledge
that has been generated throughout
history as far as management,
management of companies, etc., has
been born in an environment that
was different from the current,
in an environment in which companies
were what we call linear
companies.
However, the platforms, the platforms’
breakthrough is relatively
recent and there is not much,
let’s say a lot of
knowledge about it.
And less in traditional business
schools that are not often updated.
And what I want to go is that
the management of a platform
in terms of topics such as value
delivery, competitive advantage,
growth strategy, etc., has
to be radically different
from the management of a
linear model because it has many
implications in the business
model, in the strategy.
All that we will see because I
think it is important and we have
also seen a lot of people who
have opted for a model like marketplace,
social network, etc., without
really being aware of the implications
that management has and has
committed the usual mistakes
of managing it with
the same criteria that
if it were a linear model,
is it?
So what will we learn?
You will understand very well what
a platform is and what the
differences are with linear models.
Let’s see what are the types of platforms
because maybe you come to the head
the marketplace or the social networks
Airbnb or a social network like
Facebook, but it’s that it’
s a very wide world.
There are many types.
We have on-demand platforms like
Cavify, for example.
There are content-centric networks
such as TripAdvisor,
Yelp or YouTube.
Well, we will see it.
It is very important that you understand
the concept of network effect
or network effect or network
economy that is the main difference
between platforms and linear
models.
We will identify the benefits,
all the benefits of the platforms
and what are the causes and
finally what we will do is
give advice about how for any
manager who faces the challenge
of making a radical difference
to a linear business.
Basically the platform is that you
have two customer segments, you
have two sides, it’s harder.
If you do, your company
will be worth a lot more.
And like in all the courses in The
Power MBA we are lucky that we will
be able to share with you and first-
hand the analysis of cases
like the red fridge, like Jovan
Talent, as of the super, which
is a case of how to convert,
how to evolve from an online
supermarket, which is a traditional
linear model, to a platform
that connects supermarkets
with buyers.
It’s a very interesting case and
finally we’ll analyze Samplia,
which I think you’ll love too.
It’s a very original idea and another
example of how to turn a traditional
company into a platform,
not just a platform,
but a super-profitable business
model, with huge entry
bars and that will grow
a lot in the coming years.
Well, to finish, I want
to convey that we have done a
huge effort in this course.
I think it is an excellent course, it
is a short course, but it will help
you understand a lot of things and
it is also that it is not easy to have
been able to analyze so many
close success cases, it will be
the particularity that in our environment
we have been able to analyze
in great detail almost the companies,
the platforms that have had
the most in recent years.
I hope you enjoy it, learn
a lot and get a lot of
experience.